What is the current impact and what
will be the future impact of the black women in
athletics? The current impact? They're good.
They're strong. They're real good. I can't
understand. I wish I knew
more about physiology because It's
funny
that
in the United States, I'm talking about track now,
the black women are better sprinters, better
jumpers, better runners, of course, distance
events, they're lacking in that area. But you can
look at my team picture in a minute, and there
weren't very many white girls on the team. They
seem to just kind of, they've taken over all the
events, and I don't really know why, because you go
to You see the German teams, the Russian teams, who
are beating our teams that are all black. Their
teams are all white. Now, I know drugs enter a
little bit there, but I'm not so naive to think that
our women are probably not on drugs too, probably
not as heavily as they are, and not all the girls.
But I don't understand that. I think the black
women athletes are going to be an incentive to the
younger black
And
I always tried to pick out, like, Evelyn Ashford is
our best American Sprinter. I would put her poster
in the locker room and talk about her and Wilma
Rudolph. And I think that inspires those kids,
those younger ones.
With the increased money being spent on women's
athletics, do you feel the recruitment of women
athletes
will become more intense? I think it will. I don't
think it will ever be. Well, it may be. But it will be
a while before it's as bad as men's recruiting
problems that we have. knowing some of the coaches
that I've known that had to do some recruiting.
It's tough, especially when that money comes in,
because those girls will go anywhere. You know,
really easy when there was one school with a little
bit of money or everybody was pretty equal. The
problem is you've got major colleges with a lot of
money and some minor colleges that have stronger
women's programs than what the major college
does. They don't have so much money. And that's a
real problem for them. That's not real equal. And
so it's going to come down to, it's not right now,
but I think it probably will end up who's going to
give her most money. I hear a lot of girls now, it's
funny to hear them say, well, maybe I'll get a car,
maybe I'll get a business, maybe I'll get some
extra money here. You know, they're thinking,
they've seen the men get it, and they think they're
going to get it now, you know. I didn't hear that
when I was in school. Thought never crossed your
mind. But now, I mean, if you're really good, you
can hold out for a better deal. And women are
getting to that point. I hope it doesn't happen,
but I think it probably will. What was your...
reaction of being the first woman inducted into
the Texas A&M Hall of Fame? Do you feel there should
be such an institution, Texas A&M? Yeah, I think
it's good to have the Hall of Fame. I think it's good
to have the Walker Student Association.
Everybody kind of has their own area. I was in
shock. when I got it. As a matter of fact, I'm on the
board of directors of the Letterman's
Association, and I know they do that every year,
but I never expected it for myself. And it was
almost like I thought, well, maybe I'm not worthy
of it to be put up there with the meeting. I still
feel that way. A lot of people told me I'm stupid for
thinking that, because in their eyes, for what I
did, it was just as good as what
But it really
surprised me, and I wasn't expecting it at all. But
I'm real proud that I was chosen for it, and I'm real
proud that I was the first, because I was also the
first on the scholarship at A&M for an athletic
program. I was the first female on a full athletic
scholarship at A&M, so it kind of went step in step
with that. My first reaction when the guy called me
was, are you sure you have the right person? And he
kept saying, well, I think so.
Jackie Sherrill has made major changes
concerning women's athletics. Since firing of
Kay Dawn came under scrutiny, do you feel women's
athletics at A&M will grow under Jackie Sherrill?
Well, see that, first of all, Kay Dawn and I were
married. And I loved her a lot. She supported me. In
1980,
she went around to all the Aggie clubs and got them
to donate money so that I could travel. I ran under
Texas A&M Track Club. And my money for my travel was
all given to this former Aggies. She did a lot for
me. I think she did a lot for me while she was here. My
gosh, before she came, we didn't have anything.
And... I knew
when
that happened, I don't really know the
nitty-gritty of it all, but I know it was
really bad. I like Lynn Hickey over there. I think
she's going to do a good job. Sometimes I wonder how
coaches like Jackie Sherrill, who are athletic
directors, also coach and keep their mind equal
for all sports. You know, it may be a better deal if
you had someone like Kate Otten who wasn't the
basketball coach or the track coach. Then again,
on the other side of the coin, they, if you're a
coach, you know what you need, you know, the wants
and needs of your athletes, and hopefully you can
see that in other sports, too. I think, I mean, I
think you can't help but have the women's programs
A&M. I
don't think they
were that bad. I think they were really growing for
a while, and they kind of were in a slump, and I think
that may be what happened there. I'm not real sure
what Jackie Sherrill's done. I mean, I got a letter
from him, which I thought was real nice, that he
took the time to write me a letter, and I'm sure it
worked well. I think if he's the kind of man that I
think he is, he's going to want A&M. He's looking at
it for A&M, not You're
going to have to put your things in perspective.
You want A&M to have good programs, not just the men
to have good programs, but A&M as a whole. And
athletics should be men's athletics and women's
should be athletics and A&M. And we have both
sexes, you know, but quite many opposites. So I
think it's going to grow, and I think it will grow
with him because I think he's smart. He's a smart
person, and I think he knows that. And
I think John David Crowe does too. It was real
funny. Everybody kept apologizing to me at the
press conference they called after I had received
the award. And I was really
kind of
shocked that they were apologizing
to me because I felt like they hadn't done enough
for me for the accomplishments that I had gotten.
you know, I never really felt that way. And then
after that, I kept apologizing
to him. Then I started thinking, well, you know,
if I had been a man, I had a magazine. Of course, I
wasn't a world record holder like Randy Manson.
You know, I think he's, gosh. See, I still think of
myself as not near as good as a man. I just, it
really, I don't, you know, and I don't think I can go
in there expecting the same things that Randy did.
It was real funny that they kept apologizing to me.
I kept wondering why they were apologizing to me.
They just kept saying, we hadn't done enough for
you. I just can't believe you did this. We never
recognized you. We hadn't done enough. Which kind
of makes you, then you go, well, yeah, maybe you
guys recognize me enough. But I never have felt
that way. I think I was dealt a good love,
especially since they supported me after I had
graduated. They had given me all the money. They
took a lot of money to send me. Because all the meets
that I competed in were pretty much on the West
Coast. So every pentathlon meet I went to, it was
like getting on a plane. It was like a major trip. So
I feel good.
What do you
feel is the
future of collegiate women's athletics? Well, I
think they're going to really grow. I think
they're going to start getting some publicity on
television, which we're seeing more of now. More
of the nationals being televised.
too
fast, and they don't keep rains on it like they're
not going to. Because, well, this year in
particular, it'll come as we know about the
recruiting process they've had, and it can happen
with the women's programs. So I think that With
the growth rate
that
we're going to see, parents will be very careful
and watch more closely. And publicity-wise, that
will increase, which may also help the
professional programs that we're talking about.
It's like you can't start anything in college
until you get your high school programs going. You
can't do anything professional until you go to
your college programs. So the one-on-one will
prove the other one. This is the last question. Do
you feel that women's athletics will ever be the
same as men's athletics as far as funding? No. No,
no. That's what we get for Eve getting Adam to add
them. No, I don't. I think...
I just don't think it ever will be. Maybe 50 years
from now it might be, but in the very... near to, you
know, 30
years from now type future, I don't think that it
will be. I don't know why. I think maybe one reason
why is the men's programs, football is the biggest
moneymaker, and women don't play football. And
they're going to get the most publicity on
television, professional, and NCAA. And even in
high school they do. So men are going to always be
caught because of football. And that's always
going to be the biggest sport. Then you're going to
want to win for men. I don't think they'll ever be
equal. We'll be running close, but I don't think
they'll ever be equal. And we may be equal in
certain sports. But the
bigger
sports, basketball,
women's basketball will never be equal to men's
basketball. Track, they're pretty equal. I'm
going to have to admit they are. Right now, they're
under one coach. Smaller sports tend to be that
way. Swimming, pretty equal. You see the Olympic
swim meets, NCAA swim meets, usually they're all
the same way. High
schools now,
in track, they're going, state meets are the same.
They used to be separate. The girls' state was this
weekend, the boys' was this weekend, now they're
the same weekend. So you can see some improvements
there, and it'll probably come around now.
Nationals will probably end up being the same
weekend, too. And the Nationals and the NCAA in
track will probably be the same weekend.
That's it. That's it.